Add Git and GitHub section to SOP (#52)
emlab-ucsb/SOP: 04-gh/08-workflows.qmd

6. **Repeat.** Pull the latest `main`, start the next branch.

The rhythm of this workflow produces a `main` branch whose history reads like a sequence of coherent contributions, with each PR representing one unit of work. This makes it far easier to locate when and why a specific change was made, months or years later.

## Collaborative code development

When multiple people are contributing to the same repository, the same basic mechanics apply, but coordination becomes more important. 

### Setting up

At the start of a project, the lead researcher or data manager should:

- Create the repository under the `emlab-ucsb` organization with the appropriate `.gitignore` and README.
- Configure the `main` branch ruleset (see [Rulesets](07-rulesets.qmd)).
- Grant team members **Write** or **Admin** access to the repository.
- Briefly document the intended workflow in the README or a contributing guide.

### Day-to-day collaboration

> Each team member works on their own branch, scoped to a specific task or analysis component. Branches are independent, so two people can be developing simultaneously without interfering with each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each team member works on their own branch, scoped to a specific task or analysis component. If multiple people are working on the same remote branch (on GitHub) from their local clones, you can end up with two divergent branch histories. Then, when you try to push your changes, you might run into "merge conflicts" even within a single branch. Keeping branches independent allows multiple teammates to develop code simultaneously without interfering with each other.
```

A typical collaborative session:

> 1. Open or claim a GitHub Issue for the task you are about to work on. This signals to your team that the work is in progress and prevents duplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open or claim (there is a link in the issue information panel called "Assign to yourself") a GitHub Issue for the task you are about to work on. This signals to your team that the work is in progress and prevents unintentional redundancy.
```

2. Pull the latest `main` and create a branch. Do this from your editor's branch picker and sync button, or from the terminal:

```bash
git switch main && git pull
git switch -c fix-species-filter
```

3. Work on the branch, committing regularly using your editor's Source Control or Git panel, or the terminal. Push to GitHub periodically so your progress is visible and backed up.

> 4. When the work is complete, open a pull request. Link it to the relevant Issue in the PR description. Assign a reviewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. When the work is complete, open a pull request. Link it to the relevant issue in the PR description. Assign a reviewer.
```

I think there are other places where we were inconsistent about capitalization of "issue" and also "Git". We can implement a more comprehensive fix in our tone/copyediting PR.

Author: Thanks! I think we should use uppercase Issue (to distinguish it from the regular word) and uppercase Git tho I could be convinced if you think otherwise!

> 5. Address any review comments, then merge the PR when approved. Close the associated issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Address any review comments. Depending on the ruleset, you may need to re-request review to get approval before merging. 
6. Once you have an approved version ready for deployment, merge the PR. 
7. Check that issues associated with the PR were closed automatically.
```

To resolve the conflict, you edit the file to contain exactly what the final version should look like, then remove all of the marker lines (`<<<<<<<`, `=======`, `>>>>>>>`). You might keep your version, keep the incoming version, or write something that combines both -- whatever is correct for the analysis. When you are done, the file should look as if the conflict never existed, with no marker lines remaining.

In **Positron and VS Code**, the conflict markers are highlighted in color and the editor displays buttons above each conflict ("Accept Current Change", "Accept Incoming Change", "Accept Both Changes") that let you resolve common cases with a single click, without editing the markers by hand. This is the most convenient way to work through conflicts.

In **RStudio**, conflicted files open in the normal source editor with the raw markers visible. There is no dedicated conflict UI, so you resolve them by editing the file directly, removing the markers manually.

Once all conflicts in all affected files are resolved, stage the files and complete the merge:

```bash
git add scripts/03_model.R
git commit
```

> The best way to minimize conflicts is to keep branches short-lived and to merge `main` into your branch frequently. The longer a branch diverges from `main`, the more likely it is to accumulate conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to minimize conflicts is to keep branches short-lived, have different developers work on their own individual branches, and merge `main` into your branch frequently. The longer a branch diverges from `main`, the more likely it is to accumulate conflicts.
```
